---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

### Wikipedia in a Different Light

I've used it quite a lot over the years, but it was because on my course on open source that I became a ([very minor](tle=JoJo's_Bizarre_Adventure_(video_game)&diff=prev&oldid=921067956)) contributor. There was no way I would have guessed the unimaginable amount of edits that have been contributed to Wikipedia. It was easy to do, but only after looking for a very long time. One article that had an easily addressable formatting issue was semi-locked, so I couldn't do anything about it until I had ten edits under my belt.

Ideally I would have done all the following before my edit. I eventually learned about Wikipedia talk pages. I assumed that the nature of edits were layers upon layers of changes that settled into the entries we see, yet it turns out that there is active discussion on many pages about how an article can be improved. I also learned about the various ways people can contribute, and copyediting is thankfully one of those ways. One of the things that stood out for me was the fact that original content is not supposed to be there. Everything should point to an outside source.

### Issue Progress

I finally started working on this enough to be able to identify specific things for the [issue](https://github.com/ihhub/fheroes2/issues/41) that I will need to tackle. As I mentioned previously, I'm supposed to take hard-coded stats and instead read them from a configuration file. My first roadblock was the mysterious _() that appeared around the strings in the stats. My professor who had seen it before was able to identify it, saving me an untold amount of time (more eyes on a problem, more chance of a solution). Roadblock number two came in the form of integer values that had the types u8 and u16. I tried defining them in a test file in order to understand the individual "sub-issues" first, but they kept coming up as undefined. Those types, from my understanding, are for unsigned 8-bit and 16-bit integers. I was able to define both types as unsigned short integers (couldn't figure out how to define the u8). This way, I can check on my own if my way of reading the stats into their array from the configuration file is correct. 

### Thoughts on "Makers and Takers" by Dries Buytaert

This reading struck me as the most in tune with how the world works and what must be done in order to ensure that open source thrives. As great and as useful as the open source philosophy and its products are, they need help. As Dries Buytaert says, takers have the advantage because they can put more money towards improving their product while open source projects have to choose the balance between doing the same and also contributing to the code that the takers will take. This puts companies that revolve around open source products at a disadvantage, so it's no surprise that external forces are required to balance the playing field. Those who are in a position to advance their open source interests must do so in order to overcome this unfairness. There are companies that require that their partners contribute a certain amount of work to certain open source projects. There are some courses that require a certain level of contribution to open source in order to get a good grade. Some people might feel a little funny about this kind of stuff, but open source needs different kinds of contributions, including these, to make it more competitive against companies that would use it in not-so-good faith.
