---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---


### Finding a Project, git and GitHub Progress

First I'll start things off light today. I made a small contribution to Wiktionary. I just added the pronunciation to the entry for _pleat_, which i got from the word _incomplete_. That way I could be certain that it was correct. I also created an issue for a classmate's blog entry that contained a word that was out of place. I already submitted a pull request for another classmate's blog post last week, so I wanted to create an issue for this one.

We had our first quiz this week. It was going to be on git commands. It's all too easy for me to read or do something a couple times and think that I know the material. I prepared by going over the assigned readings in the Pro Git book again. There's a lot of information to take in, and it needs to make sense in my own way. I had a feeling that having terms look familiar wasn't going to be helpful enough on the quiz, and I was right. I'll need to actually test things out in addition to the reading from now on.

Looking through the recommendation links to help me find a project to which I could contribute, I found that people really go out of their way to help would-be contributors choose a good starting point. There are all sorts of useful labels or tags on issues which identify them as good candidates for first attempts. One site even let you search by programming language in addition to that. A couple of them offered to notify you when such issues are created. 

Luckily, I came across one project by chance a long while back on an online forum and going through those sites reminded me of it. I’ve seen the creator talk about it before. It was a free book he has been working on. When I looked him up, I saw he was talking about the things he’s working on for the second edition. I distinctly remember his very positive attitude and responses to everyone who offered suggestions. I searched the title of the book and came across the repository on GitHub. This was perfect. 

I didn’t have the time to read the whole thing, so I jumped to the glossary to see if I could find any easy fixes that other contributors may have missed. I found not one, but three simple changes. After being made aware by my professor that this level of corrections doesn’t require creating an issue first, I forked the repository and got started. For future reference, if you think you could ask twenty people how something should be fixed and they’d all say the same thing, it’s safe to skip the issue creation and go right to the pull request. 

Before pulling the trigger, I looked at current issues to see if someone was working on the same things as me. The coast was clear on that end. I remembered to create the pull request from the right location on the first go (only took me three attempts to remember). I did one commit per change because that seems to make comparing changes easier. I hit submit and later in the day I see the emails: __“Good Job! Thank you.” and “Merged #74 into master”!__ 

And there you go! A book about a project I am very interested in accepted my changes. I didn’t do much, but it still feels great. I ended up explaining to two friends what open source is about so they could understand the accomplishment I wanted to share with them. One person on one of the pages about making first contributions described how just one contribution led to many more over the years. I totally understand how he felt. 

This past week was the heaviest one so far in terms of information. I learned enough of the basics to be able to fork a project, set the upstream remote, and create/solve issues and pull requests. And I have __Merge #74__ as proof. The group activity was tougher than the first (even with the team sitting together), but things are coming along nicely I think. I merged a pull request for the in-class project and the issues I created were taken care of. As long as I can apply what I'm learning often enough, I'm sure it'll stick.

