---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---


### Memory Lane
"Where did the name enEin100 come from?" It's a question that's never asked, but I felt that answering it would lead into the next topic quite nicely. It's pronounced "N900" which is the name of a phone I bought many years ago. It was made by Nokia and ran Maemo OS (based on Debian). It was such a wonderful device that pretty much all of my user names after I had to get a different phone are derived from it. I remember writing and executing C++ code on there for fun as I was just learning to program at the time. I learned about many open source alternatives to popular software from my time scrolling through what felt like an endless list of installable applications. It was on that device that I first learned about and used IRC.

So it was nice to remember all that when IRC was brought up in class a while back. This week we all had it installed. The IRC client Hexchat came preinstalled with my Linux distribution. Everyone eventually made their way into our virtual classroom and a bit of fun was had by all as we learned about it. There are plently of ways to communicate, but large organizations such as Mozilla and the OpenStreetMap project use IRC. IRC works at its best when used for live meetings. I've gone to a channel created by the author of an open source project before. It was just him in there, and he helped me out with a problem I was having with his software. I'm looking forward to using it again.

### Guest Speaker
This past week we had Karen Sandler come in and speak to us. She shared with us her personal story about what got her on the path that she walks today. Her story, along with several additional examples, illustrate the problems (some life-threatening) that could have been addressed sooner if more diverse points of view were present during the development of devices/treatments/products. There is tangible value in efforts to increase diversity in fields that are lacking it.

She also talked to us about licenses, the importance of open source, and the ability to access and change code in the things we use. Making code open source allows for improved security and functionality. And these benefits aren't only for the people who are able to write and edit the code. These changes would be available for all to enjoy. As the devices we use become more and more complex, it is of growing importance to have as many eyes on source code as possible.

I am very grateful for Karen Sandler coming to our class, speaking to us, and answering our questions. She shared with us her personal experiences, her professional knowledge, and her genuine passion for the work that she does. That's a big deal to me, and I really appreciated it.

### The Search Continues
While looking for projects to which I could make a meaningful contribution, I was operating under the assumption that "meaningful" meant solving an issue that involves code that I don't readily understand. Yes, I remember clearly that writing code is not the only way to contribute to open source. No, there wasn't a reason why that was suddenly not true. I just needed a reminder during our last class.

On my first pass through all the projects I had in mind, it was clear that passing all my programming courses isn't sufficient for being able to write meaningful code. I went back and looked at how else I could contribute to these projects, and I'm having a hard time finding seomthing I can break into. Monero, Transmission, VLC Player, Deluge, Firefox, Kubernetes, Chromium, PyTorch, Hexchat, i3wm, Hedgewars, Hoodie, and Teeworlds are the ones that I can remember off the top of my head. I don't want to reject all of these outright in case a change in perspective could reveal that there are actually tons of things I could do, but I wouldn't be at all shocked if I end up having to focus on smaller projects. I might have gotten carried away with the thought of "easier" problems being intentionally left for people to learn from. 

But things aren't all bad. I quickly learned to click on the Labels section and look through a project's issues that way. It always gave me hope when I saw "good first issue" labels and all variations of that same idea. I realized that documentation location varies. Some projects have their documentation on their own Wiki or website, while others have them in Markdown files alongside the code. I did notice the Wiki tab present in some projects and I'd like to learn about how people could make changes to those. I also made a habit of looking at the dates of the most recent opened/closed issues as well as pull requests because nobody wants to make their first few contributions to an inactive project. So while it took me literally all day to realize these things, I won't be leaving the experience empty-handed.
