### Contribution Progress Update

The progress has been steady. I was able to create an instance of the struct I'm working with while giving it all the values it needs for its parameters. The only thing that's left for me to figure out is how to convert a string into an enum type. A quick search gave me an idea of what's involved. After that, it's just a matter of putting it all together. The only thing that could go wrong at this point is someone beating me to the pull request. I'll make sure to look at the project's code guidelines so that my submission will be in line with the rest of the code. 

### This Week's Reading

The assigned reading for this past week was about the software used in elections for counting ballots. For years we've heard of voting machines not functioning properly and casting votes for unintended candidates. As it stands, just a small number of companies have control over the overwhelming majority of voting machines and software in the United States. Having an open source solution break into the market will be difficult, thanks to service contracts with the vendors that can last as long as ten years. The complexity of the multiple components that make up the entire package may lend to this, but it is nothing that the open source community can't handle with time. 

By now we know that open source software makes it easier to find and fix bugs. But that isn't even the most important reason in this case. The code that's responsible for counting the votes and deciding who our elected officials are should be out in the open for all to see. There is simply no good reason for something like this to be anything but completely transparent and available to anyone who wants to inspect it. This transparency is as good for the software as it is for governance. 

Our nature undeniably leads to unjust situations cropping up over time. With software it is possible to remove this human element from places where it can do a great deal of harm or create injustice. I believe that only open source software can be trusted to remove the need for trust from the equation.

### A Little More on the Linux Command Line

The first Linux command assignment was due earlier this week. I had a lot of fun with trying to figure things out. It's likely that there are many ways to get correct answers. I couldn't help but wonder if there are any contests out there where people are given a bunch of files and tasks and the first to get the correct output wins. That's the kind of thing I'd like to be able to do with this at some point. 
