---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---


### Open Source and Me
For my first contributions to an open source project, I'd like to keep things simple while I get comfortable with the process. One thing I'd definitely be fine doing is trying to add to documentation. I've always liked sharing information that I wish I had gotten earlier than I did, so it wouldn't be a huge leap.

I remember this one problem I came across when installing a Linux distribution that I wanted to try out. My NVME drive wouldn't show up on the list of storage devices I could use for the installation. I eventually came across the solution (it involved using _grep_ to add something to the ISO file) and the rest proceeded just like the installation guide said it would. I wrote my own guide that included this solution along with the solutions to other problems I came across while setting up my new system. But that little guide never helped anyone other than me because it stayed in my notebook. It never crossed my mind to try to share it because it didn't really feel like something I could jump into. 

Linux distributions that try to do things differently interest me, at least enough to install them and see what they're about. I really like the idea behind a few blockchain projects and even looked at some of the code for one of them. Actually understanding any of the code is another story, but that isn't what it's about.

It's about liking an open source project so much that simply using it feels like it's not enough somehow. Being able to go through an installation or setup guide on autopilot and having everything work is the greatest thing ever. If we couldn't have it, the next best thing might be giving it to others. If anything, contributing to open source projects could make my relationship with them a little less one-sided.
