---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

### Open Source and Corporations? Yes.

This past week we had Bill Reyner come in and talk to the class about the company where he works and its relationship with open source. They're definitely sending a message when employees are able to work on open source while on the clock. Happy workers are productive workers, so everyone wins. As a company, they recognize that they stand to gain more than if they didn't leverage open source and its community. They use what is openly available instead of reinventing the wheel so they can focus on the core business. When customizations to the open source software they use are likely to be useful outside of the company, those changes are usually shared with the community. We were also told about how open source projects can be used to attack a business rival's dominant software product. I learned that open source software and its contributors can be a great resource to have. I never would have imagined that I would enjoy a talk from a financial data and analysis company employee as much as I did, but here we are. Thank you Bill Reyner.

### Even More Git

The reading for this past week was the section on branching of Pro Git, which I must confess wasn't quite as entertaining as _The Cathedral and the Bazaar_ (which I'll be talking about next time). It's true that people can just work on the Master branch forever, but forgoing the improvement to organization, collaboration, and stability by doing that would not be the best use of this system. Using different branches is a good way to work on issues or features separately. The class tutorial on simple collaborative workflows made me aware of how confusing some of the terminology can be, how important it is to know exactly where your HEAD pointer is, and why _fetch_ is safer than _pull_ (especially in a more active project).

### Potential Contribution Updates

Speaking of projects, I finally settled on a couple that I can try to contribute to. The first is fheroes2, a direct continuation of the free implementation of Heroes of Might and Magic II that works with a copy of the game or its demo which is available online. I've only ever heard of the game, but the project has a one or two issues that I believe are possible for me to solve. They did have a label for issues that would be good for beginners, and that's  where I found this one. The main issue I'm looking at for fheroes2 requires making a change to a C++ file and the creation of a configuration file. It doesn't seem like I will need to install anything that I don't already have on my computer.

I also want to take the time to mention that I'm extremely grateful for how the people involved in this project go out of their way to mention the location of the files involved in the issues where that information is available and applicable. I had another project in mind and just looking for what it is they were talking about took much more time than it should have. I'm never going to forget how easy having that information made this process for me. As you might be able to tell, I spent way too much time trying to figure out where the files related to the issues were and I really appreciate not having to go through that with fheroes2.

The other project I want to try contributing to is Void Linux. The one goal with that project would be to find free software that hasn't been added to their package repository, use their tool to convert the software into a compatible package, and add it to their package list with a pull request. I'd have to install Void Linux either on hardware or a virtual machine and work on the package there. The steps on how to do this are on their website and in the void-packages CONTRIBUTING.md file. They have a page on their site where you can search for packages to check if they're already available or not.

I consider myself lucky after finding things I can actually help with. I had to reach page 100 of GitHub issues results more than once, but as of now I am hopeful. I was honestly starting to get a bit worried that I wasn't going to be able to come up with anything. 
