---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---


### Git Activity and Open Source Contributions Revisited

It's one thing to read or hear about what Git is used for, but it was something else entirely to see it play out in front of me. As I was wrapping up the last steps of the activity, I was already thinking about how I could use this tool for myself (writing flash card files on my desktop with a full-sized keyboard and synchronizing card and stat changes between it and my phone for starters). But yes, I'd say it was incredibly useful.

As with anything you start out learning, it has the potential to be confusing. But I think the worry of messing up and ruining someone else's work was the bigger reason for working through each step as slowly as I did. Still, each step completed came with a feeling similar to the one I recall when first learning to program.

I didn't get to finish because I needed steps outside of my assigned tasks to be completed first, but it was great to see that pull request not come back empty-handed the last time I tried it. It was like finally getting a package I was really looking forward to. I know these are all baby steps, but there's something about this kind of coordination that I can't help but smile about. I can only imagine what it will feel like to have something meaningful come together and have a small part of it be because of me.

Because of the timing of when all our parts came together, I avoided dealing with merge conflicts this time around. Everything worked out fine for the most part. And thanks to our fourth member, I found a new song I like.

The on-line readings included the very important topic of preparing yourself for making non-trivial contributions. I remember from reading on forums the importance of looking for answers to your questions first before posting them, so it was not surprising to see that come up. One thing stood out the most for me though.

The way one of the authors was able to get the guidance needed to grow their confidence was so reassuring. More experienced people are using relatively simpler problems as a learning opportunity for those of us wanting to get started in contributing to open source. They see this process as a worthwhile investment. There are people out there, complete strangers, that want you to grow and succeed.

### Update: Blog Editing Assignment

And so the time finally came to contribute changes to someone else's work. I had a look at some of the blogs, starting with the ones that weren't recently updated. I came across one that had an open issue which suggested removing a few lines. How convenient.

I forked my classmate's blog repository, cloned the fork to my machine, and got right to it. I committed both changes individually and pushed the commits to my fork. After that, I proceeded to attempt creating my very first pull request...on my own fork. Once I went to my classmate's blog repository page, the Create Pull Request button was more cooperative.

This procedure was easier than the one described in the slides we saw about GitHub workflow. I didn't have anyone require me to edit my edits and I didn't have to be particularly worried about there suddenly being changes that weren't compatible with mine. Even so, the process was very informative and I can safely say that I have at least some idea of what's going on. Once again, it's one thing to hear and read about it, but it's something else entirely when you actually do it.