---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---


### Some Things to Know about Open Source

    I vaguely recall my first interactions with open source software and thinking "Oh, it's something that's free." I've learned a lot more about it since then, but I'm seeing that there is still a good amount of clarification to benefit from.
  
    I remember only associating Linux with open source. After all, Linux was my introduction to it. And that's how it was for so long that I still remember my surprise when I saw a ".exe" download link on an open source project that I was looking to install on a Linux machine. Open source can be found anywhere.
  
    I'm finding that my definition of "free" is undergoing some updates. I haven't read or heard the term _freeware_ in so long until this course. My last memory of it before this involved a game installed on the family computer. Software that's free to have doesn't make it open source.
  
    Going the other way around, software that's open source doesn't make it free to have. It turns out that some software projects have a limited open source version and a fully featured closed version available for a price. I was aware of people making money with open source software by offering support, but this was new to me.
  
    And speaking of support for open source, to me it usually involved looking at guides or going on forums. But sometimes you can chat directly with either the creators or their fellow contributors for help. It ended up being true. There was a living human being in chat, ready to help me understand how to fix a problem I was having with a window manager. The community can be very helpful if you're willing to reach out.
