---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---


### Contributions

  I realized that I didn't make any contributions last week, so I decided to get my house in order. I seem to have taken a liking to adding bench locations on OpenStreetMap. I pass by them frequently enough, so there's no excuse not to. I struggled to find something on Wikipedia to edit, so I consider myself lucky to have been able to make one extremely minor edit. It had nothing to do with the information, but you have to take what you can get, right? Nine more edits and I'll be able to edit semi-locked articles (I have my eye on one that requires a section to be broken up). I also went ahead and created a pull request for a classmate's blog. But before I did that, I made sure to register for Hacktoberfest. Just three more pull requests to go!
 
### Project Evaluations

  This week we learned about several open source projects and got into groups to evaluate one of them. One group member was responsible for recording the answers to our evaluation questions while the other group member and I split the questions between us. He took the odd numbered questions and I took the even ones. I used the information on GitHub, Open Hub, and Wikipedia to find what I needed to answer my questions. In doing so I saw what to look for when evaluating open source projects. You can get a good idea of how active the project is by the number of issues and pull requests. How friendly and helpful a project is can be gauged by looking at the discussions on those issues and pull requests. If you can't find a CONTRIBUTING or CODE Of CONDUCT file, those are your best bet. The project we evaluated was well organized, contained tests for the code, and was responsive in discussions. I have a much clearer picture of what an ideal project to work on should look like. My search is going to have a bit more structure from now on.
  
  It's a nice coincidence that the project is written in C++, which is the language that I'm most comfortable with. It did cross my mind to give it a closer look later to see if it's the project I decide to settle on for my meaningful contribution. I won't just be targeting the code for that contribution, but we'll see what happens.
  
  That evaluation made my solo evaluation much easier. I saw how my group members went about calculating average days between the creation of issues and pull requests as well as their creation and closing. It was easier because of this, but I'd say that this was the hardest part. By the way, those numbers are really important. No one wants to do a lot of work on a pull request and then find out weeks later that it hasn't been merged, or worse, hasn't even gotten any feedback. I haven't come across a project with less than friendly members, and that's important to look out for as well. One thing about the project that I evaluated was pretty odd though. It didn't have an Issues tab. I wasn't even able to find any closed issues. I already knew that people keep contribution guidelines and documentation in different places, but projects can vary widely in how they're managed.
  
