---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

### This Week's Reading

This week I read _The Cathedral and the Bazaar_, a work that describes how Linux came to be and why that was so unimaginable until it happened. It also details a journey that begins with the author's involvement in an open source project. Through the telling of the Linux story and his experiences with the project that eventually became his own, the author highlights the things he learned about open source development. It got me to better understand what comes with inheriting a project (like, well, all its users for one - I never even considered that). The reading shows with real life examples exactly how and why the open source philosophy works. So many people are *able* to help, but they'll be __willing__ if you appreciate them (#10 If you treat your beta-testers as if they're your most valuable resource, they will respond by becoming your most valuable resource). Anyone with even just a passing interest should read this.

It also brought up the idea that "#1 Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch." Good work isn't very surprising when you do the work because you want to. And the great thing about it is that you do it for you (at first). You aren't wondering about other people at the moment, though it's good to write code with future collaborators and readers in mind. It doesn't have to catch like wildfire for it to be a success. It just has to work for you. Everything after that is a nice bonus. 

### A Welcome Personal Development
Also something really nice happened. I don't know how, but after going over all the assigned reading from the ProGit book and the class slides one more time, it all finally clicked. At least enough so that I now have a good idea of what's going on at any given time. This was proven during the collaboration workflow activity we did as a class this week. No matter what the operation, you're always just a command away from seeing where things stand after the dust settles. 

"So what happens to the branch you're on after rebasing," I wondered.

**git branch*\*

"Oh okay, cool."

It all made sense. I could have fallen into the "know just enough to cause fellow collaborators lots of pain with rebasing" category, but avoiding that is just one of the benefits of taking this course.

### Contributions Progress
And with that, onto my project contribution progress. As I mentioned before, I'm going to be removing some data that was hard-coded and placing it into a config file for the project fheroes (a free open source continuation of the old game Heroes of Might and Magic 2). From there, a function I'll write will read that data from said file into the array that the hard-coded data was sent to. One of the stats was a struct that I couldn't find anywhere, which led me to finding out just how useful the GitHub search bar is. I searched the name of the struct and an option popped up around the search bar to only search within the project I was looking at. I can understand why so many issues were vague about the location of the file/s involved, but it doesn't take away from my appreciation for the people that still include that information. There are so many more *how was I supposed to know that* moments to come. I can feel it. But I'll be sure to share them here where they at least have the chance to be of use to others. But anyway, I've been trying to figure out how to preserve the data's layout while still being able to  get it to do what I need. I decided to keep a commented copy in its original form in the config file in case anyone changes the values while experimenting and wants to change them back afterwards.

For the other project I want to try to contribute to, Void Linux is not a copy and paste distribution. It's trying do several things differently. I don't know enough about SystemD or X to hate them, but I learned enough about this distribution's admirable goals to give it a go.

I found one software package that I'd like to add to the Void Linux distribution's list of packages.  It's great when we can install software with a simple command, right? So we know how not so great it is when there is no package found with that name. I've installed the OS into a virtual machine, so next up is going through the instructions on creating the package. I'll also be looking for more packages that haven't been included yet.
