---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---


### Responses to Weekly Readings

For a very long time, the only company that I knew to make money off of open source was Red Hat. And even then, I didn't know exactly how. The blog post by Tom Callaway on business models for open source filled in a lot of the blanks. I'm not too fond of people being forced to use software, service, or anything because they feel locked in, and I'm not surprised to learn that businesses probably feel the same way. With some of the business models mentioned, open source software can be made to fit the particular needs of a given business. If I as a decisionmaker had to spend money on software and support regardless of what I choose, I would be inclined to have it go towards open source. The software will get better and the business gets the support it needs.

The article by Lee Congdon on the advantages of using open source in the enterprise gives us a different point of view to consider. One of the points that appeals to me the most is being able to use the community versions of software up until the moment you decide that it's better to use the paid version, if that moment even comes at all. That's a much better arrangement than the limited time trial you'd get with closed source software. The point that didn't occur to me was the fact that maintenance costs are shared with the other users of the open source software you're using. I'd imagine that if software is useful enough for a business to rely on it, then there would be others using and maintaining it.

### Learning about HFOSS

This week we learned about humanitarian open source software. Of the several projects I Iread about, Akvo interested me the most. They are an organization that helps governments and other organizations gather and analyze data so that they can use it to better coordinate their resources and connect their people to them. This includes times of natural disasters and other emergencies like droughts or earthquakes. I've come to recognize that feeling a sense of ownership and inclusion where one lives is important, and Akvo works to enable that. By creating an accessable IT infrastructure, something such as all publicly available sources of water and their quality becomes available for the people to use and for the government to keep track of. Having this process begin with open source brings its benefits not only to them but to anyone who wants to become more involved and see how it all works.

### Working with Open Source

I'd be quite happy to work in a company that only produced only open source software. Such a company would be successful because it offers real value, not because it has somehow cornered its users. I think the ideology around open source is as important as the software itself, and it would be great to work at a company that believes that too. As for how I'd like to see the business of software production in ten years, that's something I'm not sure of. It would be great if open source software continues to grow in use, and that competitors realize that there is  no harm in opening up whatever isn't related the the "secret sauce" of their businesses.

### Contribution Update

This has been quite a week for me in terms of my efforts to contribute to my chosen project. I have so much to say about it that I volunteered to present the details of my journey as early as possible. I have learned and continue to learn a lot by having this experience. 

First, I learned that just dropping your code into a project isn't likely to pass the tests that run on it. Working in isolation is fine if you want to test the bare functionality or idea of something, but that's only the first step. My first step happened to be quite a long one, but I'll never forget that things created in a loop don't always make it out. I also learned why comma separated values are so much easier to work with than plain text thanks to the person from the project who has been guiding me. 

I'm grateful for the help that I've been getting from the person from the project. I find that it gives me enough direction so that I don't feel lost. It's my first time working with so much code, so it's very appreciated. I like the balance between the familiar and unfamiliar with the issue I chose to work on. Reading from a file was only part of the larger story, which I can't wait to share with the rest of the class soon.

