---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

### Our Third Guest Speaker

This past week, our class had its third guest speaker, Kevin Fleming from Bloomberg. Before that day, I had a very vague idea of what the company does. By the end, I knew what they do, how they do it, the scale at which they do it, and just how involved the company is with open source. The division of Bloomberg we heard about aims to provide their users with the latest financially relevant information as soon as it becomes available. It sounds simple enough, but the systems that are in place to accomplish this left me in awe. Needing the best possible hardware in existence and only utilizing 20% of it in case of huge spikes in user activity paints quite the picture, doesn't it? The workloads involved seem almost comical. And from the farthest ends of the backend, to the forefront of the frontend, open source software is an important part at all levels of this system. There were what felt like two dozen or so open source projects mentioned or shown during Kevin Fleming's presentation. He did a great job of conveying how significant some of his company's contributions were. At one point, I remember being surprised that they were willing to contribute such a huge improvement instead of keeping it to themselves.

Our second guest speaker, Bill Reyner, also works for a company that deals with financial data and has a nonnegligible relationship with open source. Kevin Fleming provided more specific information about the long history of contributions made, while Bill Reyner went into more detail about how FactSet encourages their employees to contribute to open source projects. Though Bloomberg has been involved with open source for much longer, both companies seem to be good citizens of the open source community.

### Why Having an Open Source OS isn't Enough

The assigned readings this week were both about open firmware. I don't know all that much about it myself, other than what I've read on some technology forums. And even then, it was only that some people still use old laptops specifically because they're compatible with coreboot. Everyone else had accepted that no modern device is secure. but there are companies that have been changing this. The firmware on computers can be quite scary when you think about what it's capable of doing. I remember reading on the aforementioned forums that they have the ability to access the internet without any way of being able to stop it outside of disconnecting yourself. Just where is this firmware phoning home to? The articles I read show that it could be to anywhere since firmware is mostly proprietary. Even if we trust the manufacturers, we can't believe that their firmware is completely unexploitable or accessible by a third party. One of articles pointed out  the fact that the most privileged code can't be audited. When put that way, it's hard to say that this makes sense.

### Contribution Progress Continued

First, the simpler stuff. I was able to find a couple of the [simplest](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=M.U.G.E.N&diff=prev&oldid=925103561) of [edits](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nokia_N900&diff=prev&oldid=925529356) I could make on Wikipedia. It didn't take going through dozens of pages to find them either. As for my main contribution to [fheroes2](https://github.com/ihhub/fheroes2), I'm making slow but steady progress. I was able to replicate the stats and cost structs in my own separate program with just one minor adjustment (turning all the u_int8's into u_int16's, just for now). I can finally test things out in isolation. I'm at the point where I'm working on converting those values from the configuration file into the required data structures. If I can get it to work here, it should work when compiled as part of the program.

### Learning the Linux Command Line

That's what the class has been doing for the last couple of weeks. I used to wonder what the deal was with people who prefer to use the keyboard without a mouse for everything. After seeing just a tiny bit of what's possible when chaining commands, it's much more doable than I thought. Creating multiple files, reading from another, inserting that data into another one in alphabetical order, getting only the ones that contain a certain string, and so on. Being able to do so much and so quickly  really opened my eyes to what's possible, and I'd like to be able to do all that. If in the future you see me with a "Console Cowboy" shirt/sticker/whatever, this is what started it.
