---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---

Thinking back on everything I've learned in this course, It most definitely met  my expectations. I'm really happy with the varied topics that were covered. Learning about what open source is, learning to use the tools used to work on open source projects, learning about how to use the Linux command line, learning about how open source software and businesses interact, humanitarian open source projects, it's been a great combination of different things that are tied together in such a meaningful way. 

Looking at my old response to  the question of what I thought would be suitable choices for making my first contributions to an open source project, I'd say that my answer today would be a bit different. I would have had a much wider range of ways to contribute to open source. Pretty much everything I listed before are things that are currently at the deeper end of the pool. But even so, I was able to contribute edits to a creative commons book that's directly related to one of the projects that came to my mind when thinking about possible contributions. I've learned that there's always more than one way to contribute, and you can give back to your favorite open source project even indirectly.

Looking at one of the projects that I've been working on contributing to, I have to say that I'm learning so much from having this experience. Something that would be seemingly simple code in isolation suddenly becomes a puzzle piece that you're trying to fit just right. And while that's going on, there are people willing to help you throughout the process. And this goes for countless open source projects.

I'm really glad I took this course on open source software development (and much more). I feel like giving back what I can here and there is going to stick with me for a very long time. I'm going to remember this course fondly. Thanks, all.
